Welcome to another edition of JW Broadcasting.
Here are this month's highlights.
What is it like to engage in the special
metropolitan witnessing work in the bustling
United States city of San Francisco?
We'll hear encouraging experiences
from brothers and sisters who preach
in this diverse language field.
And young ones serve Jehovah successfully,
even if their family spiritual activity stops.
We'll hear from a sister who tells what kept her love
for Jehovah growing, brought her family's
busy show business career, and we'll discuss
the beautiful quality of loyalty,
including an interview with a couple
who has served Jehovah loyally for over 60 years.
All ahead, I'm JW Broadcasting for August 2016.
This month's theme is taken from David's poetic song
to Jehovah at Psalm 1825, which states,
with someone loyal, you act in loyalty.
The Hebrew term act in loyalty reminds us
of God's loyal love that is love motivated
by commitment, integrity, loyalty, and deep attachment.
So loyalty is more than just a feeling.
It is active, it's rooted in love.
How comforting it is to know that Jehovah
lovingly attaches himself to those who are loyal to him.
What motivated David to write the words at Psalm 1825?
The superscription reveals that it was composed
after Jehovah rescued him from the hand of all his enemies
and from the hand of Saul.
Think of the great joy and relief he must have felt
after experiencing firsthand Jehovah's loyal love
and mighty saving acts.
However, throughout his life, David experienced
disloyalty at its worst.
From his king Saul, from his wife Michael,
from his trusted counselor, Ahithofel,
and from his son, Absalom.
He felt the deep hurt of betrayal
by those he trusted and loved most.
Loyalty is a choice.
What do we find when we look back at David's life?
David chose to stay loyal to God.
From a humble shepherd boy carrying for his sheep
to a valiant king carrying for the nation,
he proved to be someone loyal,
a man agreeable to Jehovah's heart.
But it can be a real test to maintain loyalty to God
when we face injustices.
Imagine the desperate situation that David
and his mighty warriors experienced
when they were fugitives, forced to hide in the wilderness,
often low on provisions.
They saw firsthand King Saul's jealous rage.
But what choice did David make
when urged by his men to seize the opportunity
to take Saul's life?
Notice what David told his men at first Samuel 24 and verse six.
It is unthinkable from Jehovah's standpoint
that I should do such a thing to my Lord,
the anointed of Jehovah,
by lifting my hand against him
for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
David knew that if he remained loyal,
Jehovah would remain loyal to him.
He would show him loyal love.
He humbly put aside his personal feelings
and viewed matters from Jehovah's perspective.
He chose to wait patiently for Jehovah to act in loyalty.
We'll soon be facing life-changing events
for told in the Bible
that will test our loyalty to Jehovah and his organization.
So now is the time to strengthen our loyalty.
As we do, we can be sure that Jehovah
knows our circumstances,
perhaps injustices we have experienced
and will reward our loyal service.
So ask yourself,
what loyal actions will motivate Jehovah to be loyal to me?
Let's consider three areas.
First, we can be loyal to Jehovah by defending him.
But Jehovah is a sovereign of the universe.
How can we come to his defense?
We can learn how from the fine example of a lie-hoo.
In the book of Job, a lie-hoo listened patiently
as Job and his three false confidors spoke.
Notice a lie-hoo's reaction at Job 32 versus 2 and 3.
His anger blazed against Job
for trying to prove himself right rather than God.
He was also very angry with Job's three companions
because they could not find an answer
but had declared God wicked.
A fire of righteous indignation
was burning inside young a lie-hoo.
In Job 36 versus 2 and 3,
he lorally comes to Jehovah's defense saying,
be patient with me a little longer while I explain
for I still have words to speak on God's behalf.
I will speak comprehensively about what I know
and I will ascribe righteousness to my maker.
A lie-hoo courageously proved loyal by praising
and yes, defending God.
Why do we need to come to Jehovah's defense today?
Because our loving Heavenly Father is blasphemed
in so many ways, false religions claim
that he's part of a Trinity
and that he torments people eternally in burning hell.
Others say that he does not exist
or if he does, he doesn't really care about us.
We know that such lies come from Satan the devil.
We demonstrate our loyalty by speaking
in defense of Jehovah,
thereby proving Satan the liar that he is.
We boldly and zealously proclaim
that he does exist as the Almighty God
and that he is wise, just and loving
and that he will soon bring an end to all evil
and reward his loyal ones with eternal life.
Jehovah could make the stones cry out in defense,
yet he honors his loyal witnesses,
you and me with this fine privilege.
Second, we can be loyal to Jehovah
by being loyal to the faithful and discreet slave,
the governing body.
Jehovah and Jesus are using the faithful
and discreet slave to feed us spiritually.
So we owe our loyalty to that slave.
But some may say, isn't the governing body
made up of imperfect men?
Yes, it is.
The last perfect person to walk the earth was Jesus himself.
There is no perfect person or organization on the globe.
But as a long time faithful brother used to say,
this is the best imperfect organization on earth.
Jesus didn't say the slave would be infallible.
He said it would be faithful and discreet.
The way we listen to and obey the faithful slave
has a direct bearing on the strength of our friendship
with God.
In fact, it means our very life.
But what if the governing body serves some spiritual food
that is not to our liking?
Or what if we do not fully understand or agree
with a clarification of a belief?
On one occasion, Jesus followers,
including the Apostle Peter, were confronted with a new teaching.
How did most react?
Notice John 6 and verse 60.
It states, when they heard this,
many of his disciples said,
this speech is shocking.
Who can listen to it?
The result?
Continuing in verse 66, because of this,
many of his disciples went off to the things behind
and would no longer walk with him.
But how did Peter respond when Jesus asked them,
are you too stumbled?
At John 6, 68, we read,
Simon Peter answered him,
Lord, whom shall we go away to?
You have sayings of everlasting life.
What loyalty?
Peter's loyalty was based on solid evidence
that Jesus was the Messiah.
His loyalty was evidence of his faith.
That is the kind of loyalty we want to imitate today.
There are times we must wait on Jehovah to clarify matters.
In the meantime, may we prove ourselves loyal, like Peter,
and follow closely the lead of the faithful slave,
who closely follow in the footsteps of their master, Jesus.
At times, though, we receive counsel that touches us personally.
For instance, on JW Broadcasting,
we receive loving reminders from members of the governing body
to be forgiving,
to honor Jehovah with our valuable things,
and to remain spiritually alert.
Through the watchtower and at Christian meetings,
we're reminded to be careful about our address and grooming,
to choose good associates and wholesome entertainment,
and to remain morally clean.
Are we quick to respond and make needed adjustments?
Or do we find ourselves wanting to defend our personal rights?
A situation in the Apostle Paul's life tested his loyalty
to theocratic direction?
It's found in Acts chapter 21.
As you recall, Paul arrived in Jerusalem in 56 CE
after a very successful missionary tour.
You can imagine his excitement as he related in detail
that things God did among the nations through his ministry.
After hearing Paul's extraordinary account,
the older men revealed to Paul a problem in Judea
that involved him personally.
Read what they said at Acts 21 and verse 21.
But they, the Jewish believers,
have heard it rumored about you,
that you have been teaching all the Jews among the nations
in a apostasy from Moses,
telling them not to circumcise their children,
or to follow the customary practices.
Well, perhaps Paul thought me in a apostate?
Really?
How can they say such a thing?
I just finished my third missionary tour
and look how Jehovah blessed the work.
Nevertheless, the older men gave Paul very clear direction
at Acts 21, verses 23 and 24,
that he likely did not anticipate.
And there it reads,
so do what we tell you.
We have four men who have put themselves under a vow.
Take these men with you and cleanse yourself ceremonially
together with them and take care of their expenses
so that they may have their head shaved.
Then everyone will know that there is nothing
to the rumors they were told about you,
but that you are walking orderly
and you are also keeping the law.
Was this the time for Paul to question their decision
or demand his rights?
He could have reason,
didn't you read my letter to the Galatians
where it says the law was nailed to the torture stake
with Jesus?
I did nothing wrong.
Why do I have to put on this pretense
just because a few are overly sensitive?
No, he humbly did as they requested,
although it nearly cost him his life.
Yes, it meant swallowing his pride,
but Paul knew there were bigger issues involved
than his personal rights.
He was considerate of the consciences of others.
But more importantly,
he showed his loyalty to Jehovah and to the governing body.
Do we see the bigger issue in our life?
Let us be determined to be humble, flexible,
and obedient like Paul,
and thereby prove ourselves faithful
to the faithful and discrete slave.
Third, we can be loyal to Jehovah
by being loyal to the elders.
We've discussed loyalty to Jehovah himself
and to the faithful slave,
but what about direction we receive
from the elders in our congregation?
We listen to our elders give talks and comments
at the meetings each week.
We work with them in the ministry
and we associate with them.
This regular contact gives us more opportunities
to see their imperfections and flaws.
We couldn't begin to focus on their weaknesses,
weakening our trust in God's arrangement.
For example, if you zoom in on any of our pictures
in our magazines,
all you'll see are colored spots or pixels.
But when you zoom out,
you see a beautiful photo or painting.
Similarly, when looking at our elders,
don't zoom in on their imperfections,
the spots of ink,
rather see the big picture.
Why then is it so important to strengthen our loyalty
to our hardworking, loving shepherds?
Because these gifts and men
aren't expression of Jehovah's loyal love
as they loyalty lead, feed,
and protect his precious sheep.
As the great tribulation nears,
our survival will depend
and our readiness to respond to their direction
as they follow the governing body's direction.
Our loyalty is not to men,
but to Jehovah's arrangement made up of imperfect,
but loyal men.
That is a lesson that Korah,
Nathan, and a Byron refuse to learn.
In this clip from the video
Respect Jehovah's Authority,
listen to Korah's defiant attitude toward Moses
as taken from Numbers chapter 16.
That is enough of you
because the whole assembly are all of them holy
and Jehovah's in their midst.
Why then should you lift yourselves up
above the congregation of Jehovah?
Korah and the others made great pretenses
of loyalty to God,
but completely ignored the fact
that Jehovah directly appointed Moses and Aaron.
Who then were they really murmuring against?
Notice Numbers chapter 26 verse 9.
This Nathan and a Byron were chosen ones of the assembly
who fought against Moses and Aaron
along with Korah's group
when they fought against Jehovah.
While focusing on the man Moses and his imperfections,
they did not really see that it was Jehovah
who was directing the nation.
They were actually fighting against Jehovah.
Their disloyalty to God's appointed men
cost them their lives,
but Korah's sons made a different choice.
In this next clip,
notice an attitude far different from their fathers.
My father and his companions
actually rebelled against Jehovah's authority.
Their envy, pride, and ambition led to rebellion,
and in the end,
they brought this honor upon themselves.
My father saw glory,
but his glory was short-lived.
I'm glad though that my brothers and I
took the right side of the issue.
It must have been hard though.
Yes, it was,
but that helps us to understand how important it is
that we not allow friendships or family
to take priority over our relationship with Jehovah
and our obedience to him.
That's what fathers always told me.
Yes, ultimately,
successful direction for us humans comes from Jehovah.
We should trust completely in his choices of appointed ones.
You see,
respect for those whom Jehovah has appointed
shows respect for Jehovah's authority.
The loyalty displayed by Korah's sons
moved Jehovah to act in loyalty by sparing their lives.
What fine examples for us to imitate?
May we never find ourselves fighting against Jehovah
by murmuring or complaining against
those who he has appointed to lead his people today.
To see more of the good and the bad examples
of loyalty among the Israelites,
we encourage you to watch the entire
respect Jehovah's Authority video on JW Broadcasting.
In review,
how can we show our loyalty to Jehovah?
First, by coming to his defense as his witnesses.
Second, by maintaining our loyal support
of the faithful and discreet slave.
And third, by a lowly following direction
from the appointed elders.
As you imitate faithful examples,
like the sons of Korah,
like David, Peter and Paul,
you will prove to be somewhat Jehovah views as loyal,
worthy of receiving his acts of loyalty forever.
Our second point on loyalty shows us ways
we can follow the faithful and discreet slaves direction.
But have you ever wondered how the governing body
arrives at important decisions?
In this Bethlehem morning worship,
Brother David's explain answers that very question.
Well, there have been so many changes.
It's hard to keep up.
We hear that a lot.
It is true.
So the question is,
how did these changes come about?
Does the governing body get together
on a Wednesday morning and say,
well, what will we change this week?
Let's throw the brotherhood off a guard a little bit.
That would not be faithful or discreet.
The fact is that although changes may seem to be announced
one after another,
the decision to put the changes into effect
is often years in the making.
Now, one of the first big changes
that the current governing body had to grapple with
had to do with this.
Is it feasible to have a branch committee
serving in the United States?
Now, for years, I thought was that
we really couldn't have a branch committee
functioning in the United States
because the States was host to the governing body
and the world headquarters.
So this was going to be a big decision
and it wasn't taken overnight.
A lot of consultation with mature, experienced brothers
was necessary.
But finally, the decision was made
and we believe that decision has had Jehovah's rich blessing.
We're proud of our hard working branch committee
and we're happy to have their support.
We need their support.
Now, let's consider a couple of other examples.
Beginning of the first week of January 2009,
the school service meeting and the congregation book study
were merged.
Now, that decision was almost 10 years in the making.
As far back as 1999, it was being discussed.
Well, then, why wasn't the decision made 10 years earlier?
Because the governing body wanted to be sure.
Will the brothers have what they need?
Will they have all of the spiritual food they need
if we merge the meetings?
Now, then one Wednesday, I think it was about 330
in the afternoon.
We'd had a long meeting.
We received two letters from a large branches
and one of the branches said that they had many large
congregations with seven or eight book studies
but with only one elder and one ministerial servant
so the elder might conduct five book studies
and the ministerial servant might conduct three
and then they had all of the parts on the meetings
to prepare.
So all they were doing with their time
was conducting book studies and preparing parts
for the meetings.
It was hard.
And then the same week, we received a letter from another branch
and they explained why the attendance
at the book study was so low.
They explained that the publishers love the meetings,
all of the meetings, including the book study,
but they're very poor and they couldn't afford the bus fare
to attend two midweek meetings.
They had to choose.
And if they attended the school and service meeting,
they could get almost two hours of spiritual direction
whereas with the book study they would get one.
So most of the time it was the school
and service meeting that won out.
While those two letters put a real face on the situation
and it helped us to make the decision.
Now in 2008, a public edition and a study edition
of the Watchtower began to be published.
That decision was a long time coming.
We discussed the possibility off and on
but we always said, let's not be hasty,
let's wait a little bit, let's see what Jehovah wants.
The main thing was, what would Jehovah want?
And how would we know?
We decided to make a sort of fleece test.
And so in 2006, we began publishing one awake a month
but we kept publishing two Watchtower.
So that would be three magazines per month instead of four.
And the rationale was, we'll try it for a year.
And if at the end of a year
our magazine placements have plummeted,
we'll know that Jehovah is not backing this arrangement.
We can go back to producing two awakes a year.
Well, what was the result?
At the end of the year, we were placing
as many magazines at three per month
as we had been placing at four per month the year before.
So that indicated to us that Jehovah was backing the arrangement
and how many of us have appreciated having a study edition
of the Watchtower that speaks directly to the Brotherhood
and then a public edition of the Watchtower.
That can be tailored a little bit more
to the needs of the public.
Now before making any decision that affects the kingdom work,
the governing body has to carefully consider
the spiritual implications.
An example.
In 2008, the decision was made to reduce the length
of public talks from 45 minutes to 30 minutes.
While you say how could that decision possibly affect
the spirituality of the Brotherhood?
And if you're serving in an urban congregation
with many elders and nearby,
there are other urban congregations with many elders,
perhaps you'd have difficulty in understanding the reasoning.
But the governing body has to look at the whole picture.
Thousands of our brothers have served with an eduase great
and they've learned a foreign language.
And in many, many of these congregations,
the learners are the elders.
Some of the learners have told us
that for every minute of a public talk,
it is required one hour of preparation.
So can you imagine 45 minute public talk,
45 hours for some of them?
So the reduction in the length of the public talks
has actually meant that these congregations
could have more public talks.
That's not all.
There are thousands of elders who are serving
in isolated congregations that may be 100 miles or more
from the next congregation.
So in one congregation you have one elder
and then 100 miles away you have another congregation
with one elder.
How many public talks were those brothers getting
when there were 45 minute public talks?
The 15 minute reduction made a difference.
So if we take a narrow view and think only about our own
situation and our own congregation,
well, we can have difficulty in understanding
why certain decisions are made.
Now the same principles apply to clarifications
in our beliefs.
The governing body loves to get together
and discuss the Bible.
And when those Bibles come out on the table
and when the brothers bring their research in
and they're starting to search the scriptures
and analyze the scriptures,
you see the happy smiles on their faces.
The brothers love discussing spiritual things.
But the clarifications are often
to are often a long time in coming into print.
Why?
Because the clarification on one scripture
can have a domino effect on others.
The clarification on one scripture
can have ramifications on other prophecies.
So we have to be absolutely sure that everything fits.
So to reiterate, although certain changes may be announced
one after another,
these decisions are thought out very carefully.
And here's an interesting side point.
The older members of the governing body,
brother Jaros, brother Barr,
were just as interested in making the adjustments
as the younger members were.
They were very progressive.
What an insight into the faithful
and discrete slaves loving concern.
Did you hear things the governing body does
that would further motivate you
to support and follow their direction?
Perhaps it's how they consulted experienced brothers
or that they consider our brothers
varying circumstances worldwide.
Or most importantly,
how they patiently and prayerfully
seek to know Jehovah's will
and look for his blessing on a decision.
Millions of our brothers and sisters around the world
can recount the blessings they've gained
by remaining loyal to Jehovah and his organization.
And we're privileged to have two such examples here
with us today.
Brother and sister William and Sandra Melenfant.
Brother Melenfant is a helper to the teaching committee
and sister Melenfant's current assignment
is in the service department.
And we're looking forward to hearing
about their rich spiritual history.
So Bill and Sandra were so happy that
we could have you here in the studio with us.
And we do look forward to learning more about you.
Maybe we'd like to go back.
How did you get on the road that has led you
to such many years of faithful loyal service to Jehovah?
It was back in 1954.
My mother had contact on and off with the witnesses
for years.
I was about 20 years old.
And she was invited to a public talk
at the Oakland Central Congregation in California.
She asked me, would you accompany me?
And I said, yeah, sure, I'll be happy to go.
Well, I recognized a young man I knew from high school
at the meeting, and he approached me after
and told me I needed a Bible study.
I really didn't want a Bible study,
but he insisted, and so I said, well, you can come by.
Would you believe it?
I started a Bible study in the Let God be true book.
Four months later, I was baptized.
It was exactly what I was looking for,
and I didn't realize it.
Good choice.
Thank you.
And Sandra, you're starting the road
to a career serving Jehovah.
Before I was born, my parents started
on this search for the truth.
It happened because they had lost a little girl in death.
And they went from church to church,
looking for some kind of comfort.
And of course, the clergy had no comfort for them.
They just said, well, God wanted another angel in heaven.
And that angered my father.
He thought, no, if God wants another angel,
he can make one.
He wouldn't take my little girl.
So it just happened that one evening,
they were listening to the radio long before TV, of course.
And they heard a Jehovah's Witness give a talk.
And then title of that talk was,
where are the dead?
Imagine.
He gave all the scripture proof about the condition
of the dead, the hope for the resurrection.
And my father immediately said, this was the truth.
So they wrote to the radio station,
got a copy of the booklet of the talk.
And then also they started receiving
the subscription to the watch tower.
But it wasn't until I was born and three years old
that the witness was finally made contact with us.
So what motivated you to make a choice
to get into the full-time service
and give your life to Jehovah?
Well, what motivated me was when I attended a convention
also in 56.
I got baptized in 54.
But in 56, I went to a district convention
in Albany, California, and there was a pioneer booth.
So I approached the booth and an older sister there
looked at me and said, your young and strong,
why aren't you a pioneer?
I felt, well, yes, why not?
So I started pioneering in 1956.
That's what motivated me.
And I was, really, I looked back at that.
It was one of the best decisions I made in my life.
Sandra, how about you?
Motivating to put in a full-time service.
Well, for a pioneer service, you know, it was like a given.
Young people were just encouraged to pioneer.
And most of the young people were doing that.
You know, after a year or two, maybe they would get married
and start a family, but those years and pioneering,
starting out their life that way,
gave them a wonderful basis for loyal service
the rest of their life.
Beautiful.
So you were pioneering.
How did your paths eventually meet?
It was at a circuit assembly in Oakland, California, 1956.
Very interesting things took place.
I had the job of dismantling the stage.
And I was carrying this large piece of plywood off the stage
and I ran right into Sandra and knocked her flat.
Well, I took advantage of the opportunity.
I thought, well, that's not the best way to introduce yourself.
But I said, by the way, would you like to accompany me
to a get-together some of the friends are having it?
Very good, Bill.
Well, yes, and I followed through on it.
We had a lot of association.
And after a number of months, we got married.
And both of us were pioneering,
very happy in our ministry serving Jehovah.
You really swept her off her feet, literally.
I fell for it.
Very good.
So shortly after you were married,
I understand you received some direction.
Yes, the circuit overseer visited our congregation.
We were only married about a month, I think, when he came through.
And he told us that the organization was looking for pioneers
who'd be willing to serve as special pioneers
and go wherever where the need was great
in the United States, particularly.
So we told them, sure, we'd be delighted to do it.
And four months after our marriage,
we received an assignment as special pioneers to Decora Ayua.
Now, that was a very interesting place
because there were only eight publishers in the congregation.
But we arrived, started with the meetings there
at the Kingdom Hall.
And the Kingdom Hall was up above Hunts' variety store
in downtown Decora, and we lived in a room behind it.
Well, you know, you're on your own like that,
not a lot of brothers around.
So you look for encouragement and company,
and we would travel down to Strawberry Point, Ayua
to where Charles and Shirley Sonnetco lived
in a log cabin, one room log cabin,
and we'd go visit with them
in order to have some mutual encouragement.
It's a nice picture of you in that log cabin, too,
as you were special pioneering.
So you're busy in that work.
What special invitation did you receive?
Well, we received the invitation to attend Gillian,
the 34th class of Gillian School,
and that was a wonderful thing.
After two and a half years of pioneering,
special pioneering in Ayua,
and we were assigned to Lebanon,
but we were unable to enter Lebanon
because we couldn't get the visa.
So then the organization asked us,
well, will you take an assignment to Morocco?
We were ready to go anywhere.
So that's how we took a boat from New York City,
five days across the Atlantic to Casablanca.
Well, very nice.
What was it like to be in the missionary service in Morocco?
It was very interesting.
We really enjoyed it, but you know, we only spoke English.
So in Morocco, we had to learn French,
and the first month of our missionary service in Morocco
was for 30 days you studied the language 11 hours a day.
Well, that could get pretty tiring for 11 hours a day,
so we'd go to the French movies
and count that as language time.
And then we were moved to Tangier,
and there was a Spanish congregation in Tangier,
and so we had to learn the Spanish language too.
But that was really a rich blessing for the two of us
to be exposed to that culture
and to have that privilege of serving there.
So after four years, I understand that you came back
to visit your family.
What events were challenging thereafter?
I think Sandra can relate that.
Well, it was usually permitted
after you were in your assignment four years,
but then you were allowed to come home
at least to have a vacation, visit your family.
But we got back, we visited our family,
and while there, I had a medical examination
and found out that I had a serious health problem.
Of course, we didn't have the funds to cover that,
so Bill wrote to the society,
and we made arrangements.
They said, well, just take care of your situation
and let us know when you're free.
So he got a job to take care of our medical needs
as well as living conditions.
But you know, we just felt like we were failures.
Jehovah knew we were discouraged.
He knew we felt distraught about this,
so he knew just what we needed and he gave it to us.
As I got to feeling better
and we got more free in our use of time,
we started pioneering and Jehovah blessed our ministry
just incredibly.
There were times in this supposedly
unproductive territory that we had up to 25 people
attending the meetings.
Many of them got baptized
and there are fast friends to this day.
So Jehovah knows what you need and he provides it.
That is beautiful.
What temptation did you have to resist
when you came back and going through these difficulties?
Yeah, I think it's a temptation
that confronts a lot of brothers and sisters
who return because of health reasons.
And some just end up settling down
because of their circumstances.
But the temptation there was,
well, you're home, you've already done your service
in Morocco for a number of years.
You've been in the full-time ministry.
Just settled down now via house.
But really, that wasn't our desire.
So as soon as Sandra got on her feet
and was feeling well enough, we got pioneering.
And then I wrote headquarters and I said,
here we are, we're ready to take on whatever.
What would you like us to do?
Good example, thank you.
So you made yourself available to the organization.
Where did they send you next?
A wonderful assignment.
We were sent a special pioneers to Washington, DC
to help start a Spanish congregation.
And that was indeed a very rich blessing.
We were there a year and a half
until that little congregation was solid and was formed.
And then we received another blessing.
We pointed to the circuit work.
So I had the Spanish circuit in Florida
from Key West to Orlando, one circuit in the whole state.
Then we came to New York City, lived in the Bronx.
I had a circuit and we did district work in the Spanish field.
Then to Texas, to what they call the Valley of Texas,
the Rio Grande Valley for a couple of years on the circuit.
And then the district in Spanish
from Houston, Texas to Ube City, California.
And we loved every minute of it.
Well, that's definitely the traveling work.
Then 1977 rolls around and you receive another invitation.
Yes, indeed.
We were doing pre-convention work in L.D.L.A.A.
area at the Lermurt Assembly Hall.
And we received a letter inviting us to come to Bethel.
And that was a very, very special privilege
to be invited to Bethel.
I went into the service department
because at that time, they invited
a number of traveling overseers to come in
and work in the service department.
And Sandra went into housekeeping
and we were both delighted to come to Bethel.
Well, sort of.
I really, I really loved the ministry.
I loved the, especially there's a district
working with the circuit overseer and his wife
every week and out service.
So I wasn't too anxious for this Bethel thing.
But you know, to hope again, those what you need.
We came here and we started adjusting to Bethel life.
And it really proved out to be a real blessing
because we got the close association
with so many other loyal witnesses of Jehovah.
Well, I'm sure you have many more experiences
to let us know about, but we appreciate you sharing those.
The governing body has made significant adjustments
in the work that is taking place at Bethel and the field.
And it has affected many long time faithful brothers,
loyal brothers, and in the traveling work
overseers in the congregation, overseers at Bethel.
Bill, what do you think about some of these changes
that the governing body has made recently?
I think they're very wise decisions.
They know what is needed.
They appreciate the older men who have served for years.
We know that the older brothers
been in circuit work, district work, wherever.
They're worthy of double honor because of the way
they've given of themselves to the work.
But we have to recognize to there comes a time
when we want the younger men to come along
to accept responsibility.
And really, when we were young,
we received responsibilities with very little background
and training.
Now we've got all these schools for kingdom evangelizers,
the ministry's kingdom ministry school.
So many opportunities for younger ones to be trained.
And so I think it's a wonderful arrangement.
Many thousands of young men are doing so well
ready to accept responsibility.
It's a blessing for the entire organization.
Well, thank you for sharing that.
That will benefit many brothers.
So we look at this couple before us
and we see someone who has made wise choices along the way.
So we look back at over 60 years of faithful, loyal service.
As you look back at decisions you were made in life,
any regrets?
Oh, absolutely none.
We consider that whatever we have given up or done,
it's been our gift to Jehovah.
You know, when I was a little girl,
I remember I used to go out on our farm
and especially when there was a full moon.
And I used to pray to Jehovah and I'd say,
it just let me use up my life in your service.
You know, he's answered that prayer
because my life is majority of it used up
and he's let me do it in his service.
Beautiful.
And Bill, how do you view sacrifices
that you have made along the way?
Well, as you know, a sacrifice can be something you give up
to serve God perhaps,
or a sacrifice can be what you give to Jehovah.
Like David said in Psalm 54,
I will sacrifice to you willingly.
And that's how I view sacrifice.
We're happy to give of ourselves to Jehovah God
to serve Him.
And I want to add to Sandra has been a wonderful partner
with me, willing to go anywhere,
put up with all kinds of circumstances and difficulty,
a scripture that I, there are a number of good scriptures,
obviously that we all love.
But one in particular that stays in my mind
is Romans chapter 14 verses seven and eight.
We live, we live to Jehovah.
We die, we die to Jehovah.
So whether we live or we die,
we belong to Jehovah.
And we've made that decision, not just because he's the creator.
We've made the decision to give ourselves to Jehovah God.
So absolutely, we've had the best life possible.
We have no regrets at all about what we've done
with our life giving Jehovah the first place.
Bill and Sandra, it's been a real privilege
to hear more about you.
And I know there's more stories to tell.
How can you boil down 60 plus years of loyal service
to Jehovah?
But you have given us great insights.
Thank you for sharing those gems with us.
Like the melanchons, many loyal witnesses
were not taught the truths from the Bible,
from birth to adulthood.
For some young ones, seeds of truths
are planted along the way, but can lay dormant for years
due to family circumstances.
Sister Corey Wells explains how her family special talent
almost kept her from riding on the road to life.
The first rodeo I performed in front of an audience
that was eight years old.
We were considered one of the top two acts in rodeo,
my strength lied in my fearlessness.
Even though there was a certain amount of excitement,
it was fun to travel, to be together as a family.
It was empty.
Trickriding is like gymnastics on the back of a running horse.
We've had horses all of our life.
My father specialized in training courses.
He used to send us to the mountains riding all day long,
and then we'd come home in the evening,
and we would start trickriding.
The way we learned was by a book.
We looked at stick pictures that showed how it should be done,
and so it was trial and error.
At the same time that we were learning, our horses were learning.
The horse that I rode just let me do anything.
My horse's name was Sweetlips.
I was eight when I got him, and I named him myself.
He was like my best friend.
My parents were very active in the rodeo as competitors.
My mom was bell racing.
My father was a saddle-brunk rider.
I grew up as one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
but when I was very young, maybe six or seven,
my father stopped serving Jehovah.
To be honest with you when they announced that at the Kingdom Hall,
it really didn't have much meaning to me at the time.
I didn't know what it meant.
And I could see people crying, and so I cried,
but I didn't really understand it.
Really from that point, our family was not active
as Jehovah's Witnesses.
I grew up on the road traveling, rodeo to rodeo,
from coast to coast, and from the south to the north,
as far as the roads go.
The four of us rode initially, Connie Kelly, myself,
and my brother, Jim, our family traveled together.
That meant a lot to me.
What separated us from the others at the time
was the high speed that we did it at.
And also the difficulty with the tricks that we chose to do.
People were very excited.
They would hire us back at the same place year after year.
Throughout all that time, we did not miss one memorial.
We were always there.
There was something in us.
We didn't know it when we were little,
but my parents had succeeded in planting the truth in our hearts.
My link to the truth was my grandmother.
I can remember going to the ranch and visiting her.
She was very busy.
But one thing that really sticks in my mind
is she always studied every day.
She read her Bible.
Her magazines were studied.
And I think it just put a seed in there
that later on started to grow.
I just felt like I needed direction.
It's like a line was drawn in the sand.
Take one path or the other.
And so ironically, the first book that I picked up to read
was the Bible.
One of the scriptures that probably meant the most to me
was Proverbs 35 and 6.
Trust in Jehovah with all your heart
and do not lean upon your own understanding.
And all your ways, take notice of him.
And he himself will make your path straight.
I used to think about those words
and what I would have to do to live up to them.
Although we traveled with the rodeo about 10 months out
of the year, we did go to the district convention
and the live forever book came out.
And there just came a time when I knew I
needed to make changes.
Sister started studying with me.
And as I started reading the Bible for myself
and studying, then Jehovah became real.
All it took was one or two people in the whole family
followed my father to return to the truth.
Trick writing was our family business.
It was our livelihood.
But we had decided that we were done.
We were going to stop.
With that decision would come giving up everything we knew.
I think the most difficult thing for me
to do was to sell the horse.
You just get such a close bond with them
when you're putting your life in their hands like that.
But I was willing to do that.
I knew what I wanted to do.
I did it.
I got baptized in October of 85.
Our last performance was in February of 86.
We just finished at our contracts.
I started pioneering in September of 86.
And I've never stopped.
I also married a man who loves Jehovah.
We've had the privilege of working
on international construction projects.
We went to Mexico.
We went to Venezuela.
My father's an elder.
My mom's pioneering.
In fact, all of my siblings have
been able to regular pioneer at some point in their lives.
We're presently in the circuit work.
Serving Jehovah together is such a blessing.
Everything that we do every day is for Jehovah.
That's what I wanted to do when I made this decision.
If I would have taken that other path when I was young,
I may not be alive today.
What I did was dangerous, even fame and fortune
in the world, there's nothing there.
I wanted the real life.
I wanted to serve Jehovah.
I have no regrets.
If I could change anything, when it comes to my service
to Jehovah, I would change nothing.
I would just do it better.
It took courage for Corey and her family
to choose loyalty to Jehovah over an exciting rodeo career.
Jehovah will always help us when we're
perfectly deciding how an activity or a career we love
affects our dedication to him.
Can the time it demands, or even the danger involved,
take us away from whole soul service?
Our loyalty to Jehovah is expressed
in how we follow Bible principles
when making any important decision in life.
We received a report from San Francisco, California,
in the United States, where publishers have been engaged
in special metropolitan witnessing since 2013.
It's helping our brothers reach multiple language groups,
start Bible studies, and make disciples.
When I'm rolling the cards down to get ready for the work,
I can feel people's eyes on me.
And it makes me feel proud that I'm representing Jehovah,
even before I get to the location.
We have a chance to use our Bibles very regularly.
We talk to honest-hearted people who are interested
in really learning what the Bible teaches.
Jehovah's reaching people in those far-to-reach areas
where it could mean their life to even talk about things
such as the Bible.
When you're part of the metropolitan work,
you get to welcome people being drawn by Jehovah.
We see thousands of people every day who walk by our cards.
While we're placing literature in up to 40 different languages
each week, what's really exciting
is to see how many conversations we're studying
and how many Bible studies were an issue.
We're visible to a lot of people in the community,
especially those who were inactive
or maybe were raised around the truth.
Jehovah's arranged to have his people put right
in the center of everything.
And we're able to meet people from all over the world.
I've met people from Peru, South Africa, Japan, Germany,
England, France, Italy, Cameroon, Congo, Boku.
It's shown that greeting will be something like
Makadi, Monon Zani, Chinese New Yorker,
Kawanda, Zamanga, Farid Rao Kuveringapano,
which is not a problem of a Bible.
They show Maranning Bill in the Micah,
which means, would you like to study the Bible?
Which means, would you like to study the Bible in sign language?
So when I asked her if she'd seen the sign language Bible,
she shook her head no, and I showed her act 1727.
And as soon as it was done, she started signing.
I understood that.
And then she said, didn't she say this was a free act?
So right then, she started downloading it on her phone.
We had a gentleman come up and wanted to first sit,
he said debate, and then he said, just discuss.
But as he's talking with us, he had to catch his train,
but he missed three trains, because he
wanted to continue the conversation and speak with us.
It was a really good experience, because we just
get to talk to people and let them see a different side of us.
It's not necessarily about whether we place a book with him or not.
And in the end, he turned to my husband and I
and said, you know, you're really good ambassadors.
We start Bible studies here every day,
and these studies are conducted globally.
I met Alfredo in 2014, right before the memorial.
He approached the cart.
He had a rough life.
He was doing a lot of bad things.
And so he felt that he couldn't overcome them.
So I told him that no matter how big his problems are,
they're not too big for Jehovah.
And so I encourage him to start studying the Bible again.
Come now and let us sit matter straight between us.
Since Jehovah, though your sins are like scarlet,
they will be made as white as snow.
When Jehovah forgives you, he forgives you completely.
I got baptized, and in the same month,
I started auxiliary pioneering.
It is such a privilege to be one of Jehovah's Witnesses
with brothers all around the world.
If anybody is hesitant to take part in a special metropolitan
with the same work, maybe you're
worried about finances.
Time.
Are you just afraid that it's something different?
You won't know what to do.
Please don't let any of those things stop you.
It's from Jehovah.
Grab, hold a bit.
Tight, don't let go.
Each month, the brothers and sisters in San Francisco's
metropolitan witnessing distribute over 5,000 publications
and start an average of 185 Bible studies.
After some initial concern from local authorities
over having literature cards at the Golden Gate Bridge,
authorities have expressed appreciation
for our brothers being there with a Bible's message of hope.
It's been requested that we always have on hand
the April 2014 awake with the cover title,
Why Go On?
Three reasons to keep living.
One afternoon, an officer approached a card and said,
well, your magazine worked.
The police had just helped a young woman
who was thinking of jumping from the bridge.
When they reached her, she had the awake issue in her hand
and had decided not to jump.
Life in this system can be difficult for everyone,
but our witnessing work comforts people
and teaches them to know and think their creator for life.
And the longer we know Jehovah as his witnesses,
the more reasons we find to thank him
for his acts of loyalty.
We're even moved to sing our appreciation to Jehovah.
Like in this music video entitled,
our thanks go to you.
We saw the family in our music video facing economic pressure
and our dear older couple
enduring the stress of failing health.
But as Philippians for six encourages,
they let their petitions be made known to God.
You and I can do the same for any problem
that causes us anxiety.
We should not only supplicate Jehovah
to give us his Holy Spirit so that we can endure,
but also thank him,
fully assured that he will not abandon his loyal ones.
We'd again like to thank brother and sister,
Malon Fond, for being here with us.
With almost 60 years of full-time service,
the Malon Fonds have so much they can share.
So we're pleased to announce
that an extended version of their interview
will be released later this month on JW Broadcasting.
Finally in our program,
we have a special behind-the-scenes visit
with the orchestra that records our beautiful
Theocratic music.
In December 2015, 75 musicians gather from 16 countries
or a five-day section at our studio in Patterson, New York.
A team of 15 technicians join them to record 22 pieces.
Among several songs we sing at our meetings
was the stirring arrangement of song 147,
a special possession that we sang at this year's memorial.
The orchestra took time from their busy session
to send you their Christian love and greetings.
And we thank them and the governing body
for the music we have to joyfully praise our God, Jehovah.
We're happy to have been together with you
for this month's program.
From Brooklyn, New York, this is JW Broadcasting.